+++
title = "My relationship with nature"
date = "2025-01-04"

#
# description is optional
#
# description = "An optional description for SEO. If not provided, an automatically created summary will be used."

+++

I was born in a small mountain town, and that I think has impacted me. Mountains
were always there, in the distance, like giants that are calling you. My early
years were full of time outside: biking, playing soccer, or just fooling
around. I remember vividly trying to make tree houses, not with success, but
enjoying the process. Also having lunch with my family in the mountains. While
I did not hike a lot with them, we spent time there. However, during my teenage
years, I did not go much. Other things occupied my time (mainly thinking
about love and other stuff), but after a hard breakup, and since I wanted to
improve my stamina, I started running. Given that the mountains were there, it
was natural for me to go running there. Then, something clicked. I felt free,
enjoyed my time there, and started wandering, with no clear path. I started
scrambling (sometimes with pretty bad consequences if I fell), but mainly just
being there, thinking. Somehow, I think that time in the mountains made me who
I am today. I still enjoy being out there, it makes me feel energized. However,
I do not reach the same state of mind as when I was a early adult, when I was
just present, thinking about all those things that I gave importance to
(spoiler alert: they were not that important). I miss that, and I miss nature
now that I live far away from the mountains. For me they are a shelter, that I
can always go back to. I hope they will always be there for me.